hello this is chef john from food wishes
comm with quick cured salmon that's
right this amazing technique is so fast
it actually takes longer to explain it
than it does to do it and think about it
why pay twenty-five dollars a pound for
gravlax at that fancy grocery store when
you could buy fresh salmon for
twenty-five dollars a pound and make
your own it wait a minute so alright
I'll admit we really don't do this to
save money the real reason is so our
foodie friends think we're a badass so
we're going to get started and the first
thing we need is the brine so into a
bowl I'm gonna pour some fresh cold
water yes we're using fresh water this
time and then to that we're going to add
a whole bunch of kosher salt and a
fairly decent amount of white sugar and
we're going to go ahead and give that a
stir until it's completely dissolved and
sure this would be quicker if we used
hot water but then our water would have
been cold and fresh but anyway no
worries because after a couple minutes
of stirring that cloudiness will
disappear and it will look like water
again and in the business we refer to
this as a moment of clarity and once
your brine looks like that simply set it
aside while we move on to prep the
salmon and there we go I have one
beautiful piece of salmon and it should
still have the skin on it and I'm going
to recommend you ask the fishmonger for
a center cut all right that's right in
the middle of the fillet make sure you
have them pull those pin bones out or
you do that yourself because we want
some nice uniform thick slices this
piece of salmon is going to work the
best and then the prep this here's what
we're going to do there's a little bit
of connective tissue right in the center
you see that little streak down the
middle what we'll do is we'll cut on
either side of that right down to the
skin but don't go through and then
simply turn the blade parallel to the
cutting board and slice it that way and
then we'll go ahead and do the same
thing on the other side keeping the
knife between the flesh and the skin and
then once you've done that on both sides
go ahead and slide that knife blade
right through like that and that piece
of meat should come right off the skin
alright and I'm not going to show it but
I'm going to do the same thing to the
other piece and then once I have those
sections removed from the skin we can
trim it up a little further if we want
you can see that little bit of gray
flesh there where it meets the skin so
basically anything that's not that
beautiful orange splash you can feel
free to trim away and then once any
fine-tuning trimming is done we're just
going to turn that piece this way and
carefully cut about quarter inch thick
slices
and obviously you can cut them thinner
if you want or thicker if you want but
if you want to use my briny times it's
going to be kind of important you get it
similar so I'm going to continue to
slice that across and once our salmon
has been sliced it's time to brine and I
like to do 5 or 6 pieces at a time I
mean I could probably get more in here
but I know doing it in batches works
great so better safe than sorry are you
want to be sure about the cure so I'm
gonna go ahead and place those slices in
the brine and then believe it or not
it's only going to sit in there for
three minutes it's not called quick here
for nothing so set your timer for three
minutes and you could probably just let
it sit there but you know me I can't
stand in front of food for three minutes
without touching it so I do move mine
around a little bit like I said probably
for no good reason and then exactly
three minutes later we're going to fish
those out onto a rack although you could
probably just put these right onto paper
towels I just thought the rack would
look cooler but anyway we're going to
fish those out and once those have been
removed from the brine very important we
need to Pat those dry a little bit so
take a paper towel and kind of blot
those off all right it's okay if they're
moist you just don't want them wet and
then once all our salmon slices have
been cured and patted dry we're going to
go ahead and put those on a platter
we'll go ahead and wrap that nice and
tight with plastic and then to finish
the process we want to refrigerate those
until ice cold before serving I would
say a minimum of two to three hours
although overnight I think's much better
Izzie sit in the fridge those slices of
salmon kind of continue to cure and
you'll even get a little more of a
firmer texture but anyway we're going to
chill that thoroughly and then it's
ready to unwrap and use and look how
beautiful that is all right that colors
deepened that textures firmed up very
similar to a commercial smoked salmon or
gravlax or other type of cured salmon
and because of that salt and sugar and
the brine it's perfectly seasoned so
let's go ahead and unwrap that and start
figuring out ways to eat this one of my
favorite and simplest ways is just to
put a little bit of ginger just like a
half of a freakishly small wooden spoon
just stir it into a little soy sauce and
then just give that slice of cured
salmon a little dip and that is
absolutely fantastic like that so it's
kind of a minimalist approach all right
if you wanted to go full food bloggers
you could serve it as a crudo with a
little microburbs Aled maybe a little
Green Goddess underneath
youth maybe a little grated horseradish
over the top that's another amazing way
to enjoy this and you can really get a
good feel for the textures I cut it with
the fork I mean it has that firmness
like a cured piece of salmon wood but it
also retains this incredible suppleness
just a luxurious texture so nice or of
course you could just channel your inner
New Yorker and do a take on a bagel and
lox that's just a pumpernickel
everything flatbread with some cream
cheese a slice of the cured salmon and
some chive and that bite right there is
just as awesome as you would imagine but
hey what are you doin imagining when you
can actually experience okay so I really
do hope you give this a try head over to
food wishes comm for all the ingredient
amounts and more info as usual and as
always enjoy
[Music]